# Product Guide 

## **July 2021**

## **Revision 4.0**

Notice: This document contains information on products in the design phase of development. The information here is subject to change without notice. Do not finalize a design with this information.

Intel technologies’ features and benefits depend on system configuration and may require enabled hardware, software, or service activation. Learn more at intel.com, or from the OEM or retailer.

No computer system can be absolutely secure. Intel does not assume any liability for lost or stolen data or systems or any damages resulting from such losses.

You may not use or facilitate the use of this document in connection with any infringement or other legal analysis concerning Intel products described herein. You agree to grant Intel a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to any patent claim thereafter drafted which includes subject matter disclosed herein.

No license (express or implied, by estoppel or otherwise) to any intellectual property rights is granted by this document.

The products described may contain design defects or errors known as errata which may cause the product to deviate from published
specifications. Current characterized errata are available on request.

This document contains information on products, services and/or processes in development. All information provided here is subject to
change without notice. Contact your Intel representative to obtain the latest Intel product specifications and roadmaps.

Intel disclaims all express and implied warranties, including without limitation, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and non-infringement, as well as any warranty arising from course of performance, course of dealing, or usage in trade.

??? warning classes
    Altering PC clock or memory frequency and/or voltage may (i) reduce system stability and use life of the system, memory and
processor; (ii) cause the processor and other system components to fail; (iii) cause reductions in system performance; (iv) cause additional heat or other damage; and (v) affect system data integrity. Intel assumes no responsibility that the memory, included if used with altered clock frequencies and/or voltages, will be fit for any particular purpose.
Check with memory manufacturer for warranty and additional details.

Tests document performance of components on a particular test, in specific systems. Differences in hardware, software, or configuration
will affect actual performance. Consult other sources of information to evaluate performance as you consider your purchase. For more complete information about performance and benchmark results, visit http://www.intel.com/performance.

Cost reduction scenarios described are intended as examples of how a given Intel- based product, in the specified circumstances and
configurations, may affect future costs and provide cost savings. Circumstances will vary. Intel does not guarantee any costs or cost
reduction.

Results have been estimated or simulated using internal Intel analysis or architecture simulation or modeling, and provided to you for
informational purposes. Any differences in your system hardware, software or configuration may affect your actual performance.

Intel does not control or audit third-party benchmark data or the web sites referenced in this document. You should visit the referenced web site and confirm whether referenced data are accurate.

Intel is a sponsor and member of the Benchmark XPRT Development Community, and was the major developer of the XPRT family of benchmarks. Principled Technologies is the publisher of the XPRT family of benchmarks. You should consult other information and performance tests to assist you in fully evaluating your contemplated purchases.

Copies of documents which have an order number and are referenced in this document may be obtained by calling 1-800-548-4725 or by visiting w[ww.intel.com/design/literature.htm.](http://www.intel.com/design/literature.htm)

Intel, the Intel logo, Intel TXT, and Xeon are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries.

\*Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.

Copyright © 2020, Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

## Revision History

| Revision  Number | Description                     | Date          |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------- | ------------- |
| 1                | Updated for all GA Failures     | May 2019      |
| 1.5              | Updated for version 1.5 release | July 2019     |
| 1.6 BETA         | Updated for 1.6 BETA release    | November 2019 |
| 1.6              | Updated for version 1.6 release | December 2019 |
| 2.0              | Updated for version 2.0 release | February 2020 |
| 2.1              | Updated for version 2.1 release | April 2020    |
| 2.2              | Updated for version 2.2 release | June 2020     |
| 3.0              | Updated for version 3.0 release | August 2020   |
| 3.1              | Updated for version 3.1 release | October 2020  |
| 3.2              | Updated for version 3.2 release | November 2020 |
| 3.3              | Updated for version 3.3 release | December 2020 |
| 3.3.1            | Updated for version 3.3.1 release | January 2021 |
| 3.4 | Updated for version 3.4 release | February 2021 |
| 3.5 | Updated for version 3.5 release | March 2021 |
| 3.6 | Updated for version 3.6 release | May 2021 |
| 4.0 | Updated for version 4.0 release | July 2021 |
